---
title: "Today I Learned blog"
description: "Daily updates on the journey to fast-forward merge my front-end skills to 2019"
tags: ["CSS3", "hugo"]
date: 2019-06-01
draft: false

---

I've been writing web code and publishing without permission since I
could reach a keyboard. I've built dozens of web-apps and web sites,
some of which were wildly successful, and many of which were not.  Plus
One reached over a million users. Zivity and Feed Me Links were each in
the dozens of thousands of active and paying customers. Yet despite all
this web work, my understanding of the web was always fuzzy and
incomplete, built in bits and pieces, never honed against any curriculum
or test or school, since none existed when i started learning.

As I grew up in skills, my title kept getting upgraded, from Engineer to
Senior Engineer to Manager to Director and so on. After being an
Engineering Director (and Creative Director) for a long enough while,
with my days filled mostly with meetings and planning and translation
between all the lays of the human stack, my front-end skills stopped
getting the regular care and feeding they craved.

At the same time as I was doing managerial and leadership stuff around
design and technology at our startup, the pace of the web, amazingly,
accelerated dramatically. Within a few years, several new web standards
appeared, and then exploded, or at least that's how it felt. Seemingly
overnight, suddenly, CSS Grid and Flexbox were actually *here*, as
usable in real browsers. Single page apps (SPA), powered by Ember.js,
and then Angular, and then React happened. Vue.js happened. Aided in
part by the heroic work of the V8 team's work making Javascript fast and
portable, Node and the general Javascript renaissance, happened.

Suddenly, one day you wake up, and Microsoft, the web's biggest cartoon
villain, is cool again? Now everyone's using VS Code (rebranded from
Visual Studio Code). "GitHub, a Microsoft product"? What the actual huh?

Suddenly, in a fractally expanding world of new technology, my
wizard-like web developer stylings were far from wizardly! I went from
being a full-stack web developer who was dangerous in about 3 web
frameworks to someone who felt baffled when viewing the source of any
modern website.

I missed being the only one in the building who knows the exact curl
command that will tee off 30% of live production API traffic to the dev
build. I pine for the days when I could offhandedly diagnose issues with
the cantankerous distributed content management system I'd built using
an obscure functional language not meant for production use.

The cadence of feelings of mastery (alternated with frustration)
interleaved with the opportunity to completely lose oneself in an
abstract world free from the messy problems of real life, is something I
missed.

So this, then, is a daily log of my 2019 summer mission. Just a few days
ago I quit my job as co-founder of a venture-backed startup due to
massive, deep-seated differences with the co-founder who recruited me. I
have a family trip planned to visit Michigan in August, which will take
me away from the keyboard for about two weeks (since they don't have
computers in Michigan).

That gives me a hard deadline of just two months to

[...]

<!--
  fast-forward merge https://ariya.io/2013/09/fast-forward-git-merge
-->
